Sdg23 update user guide installation instructions (#404)
MDAnalysis/UserGuide: doc/source/installation.rst

.. -*- coding: utf-8 -*-

====================
Installation Guide
====================

The latest version of **MDAnalysis** can be installed using:
`pip <https://pip.pypa.io/en/latest/index.html>`_ (most common, for general users),
`conda <https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/>`_ (recommended for better dependency management),
or from `source <https://github.com/MDAnalysis/mdanalysis/>`_ (for development and contributing). Currently, 

> the `conda <https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/>`_ releases only support serial calculations. If you plan to use the parallel OpenMP algorithms, 

Reviewer: Since you're linking conda and pip multiple times on this page, it might be easier to [separate the text and address:](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/basics.html#external-links)

```
the `conda`_
< rest of text >

.. _conda: https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/>
```

Reviewer: Although actually it would be more informative to link to the subsections on this page using [references](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/referencing.html#role-ref)!

you need to install MDAnalysis with `pip <https://pip.pypa.io/en/latest/index.html>`_ and have a working OpenMP installation.

> **MDAnalysisTests** is a optional and it is a separate :ref:`test suite <mdanalysistests>` used for verifying MDAnalysis installations and running User Guide examples. 

Reviewer: Typo?

```suggestion
**MDAnalysisTests** is optional and it is a separate :ref:`test suite <mdanalysistests>` used for verifying MDAnalysis installations and running User Guide examples. 
```

.. warning::
    `Conda <https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/>`_ and `pip <https://pip.pypa.io/en/latest/index.html>`_ installations **do not include** external programs such as `HOLE <https://www.holeprogram.org//>`_.

Conda installation
=====
 
For most users, `conda <https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/>`_ is the easiest way to install MDAnalysis because it manages dependencies effectively. 
We highly recommend creating a new environment for MDAnalysis. We further recommend that you install and use ``mamba``, a faster drop-in replacement for ``conda``.

.. code-block:: bash

    conda create --name mdanalysis
    conda activate mdanalysis
    conda install -c conda-forge mamba

To install the latest stable version of MDAnalysis via ``conda``, use the following command. This installs all dependencies needed for full analysis functionality.

.. code-block:: bash

    mamba install -c conda-forge mdanalysis

To upgrade use:

.. code-block:: bash

    mamba update mdanalysis

> To install the `test suite <https://userguide.mdanalysis.org/stable/datasets.html#mdanalysistests>`_ use:

Reviewer: It might be easier to use a `:ref:` here like above, which should automatically resolve to the link!

Edit: by "above" I mean this part: ```:ref:`test suite <mdanalysistests>` ```

the parallel `OpenMP`_ algorithms, you need to install MDAnalysis with `pip`_ and have a 
working `OpenMP`_ installation.

**MDAnalysisTests** is optional and it is a separate :ref:`test suite <mdanalysistests>` used 
for verifying MDAnalysis installations and running User Guide examples. It is not required for 
daily use, but some tutorials depend on it. The package is 90 MB and does not change frequently. 
If you plan to use tutorial examples or contribute to MDAnalysis development, installing it is recommended.

MDAnalysis requires Python 3.8 or later. Ensure you have an appropriate Python version installed before proceeding.

.. note::
    MDAnalysis supports **Linux**, **macOS**, and **Windows** (Python 3.8+). 

    - If you encounter errors on **Windows** related to **Microsoft Visual C++ 14.0**, install the required **Build Tools for Visual Studio** from: `Microsoft Visual Studio Downloads`_. 
    - If you encounter any other issues following these instructions, seek help on `GitHub Discussions (Installation)`_.    

.. warning::
    `conda`_ and `pip`_ installations **do not include** external programs such as `HOLE`_.

.. _conda-installation:

> conda 

Reviewer 2: Call it mamba/conda or Installation with conda-forge packages ... consistent with what we're doing elsewhere.

======
 
For most users, `conda`_ is the easiest way to install MDAnalysis because it manages dependencies effectively. 
We highly recommend creating a new environment for MDAnalysis to ensure a clean installation of MDAnalysis and 

> its dependencies. We further recommend that you install and use `mamba`_, a faster drop-in replacement for `conda`_. 

Reviewer 2: Make consistent with other instructions that recommend mamba first.

Author: Thanks @orbeckst for your comments. I was wondering if it is a good idea to recommend both options for installing mamba, via conda (if you have it installed) or via miniforge (recommended)?

If you intend to use MDAnalysis in **JupyterLab**, you will have to install
an extra package for the progress bar in analysis classes:

.. code-block:: bash

    conda install -c conda-forge nodejs
    jupyter labextension install @jupyter-widgets/jupyterlab-manager

.. _pip-installation:

pip 
===

The following command will install or upgrade the latest stable version of MDAnalysis via `pip`_ with core dependencies. 
This means that some packages required by specific analysis modules will not be installed.

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install --upgrade MDAnalysis

If you need to install a fully-featured MDAnalysis, add the ``analysis`` tag. 

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install --upgrade MDAnalysis[analysis]

To install or upgrade the :ref:`test suite <mdanalysistests>`:

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install --upgrade MDAnalysisTests

If you intend to use MDAnalysis in **JupyterLab**, you will have to install
an extra package for the progress bar in analysis classes:

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install nodejs
    jupyter labextension install @jupyter-widgets/jupyterlab-manager

.. _source-installation:

Install from source
===================

> If you plan to develop or contribute to MDAnalysis, follow these instructions first. Then, refer to :ref:`contributing` for additional guidelines.

Reviewer 2: Distinguish "install from source" (which really should be installing from a  release branch) vs "installing for development" (installing develop). Talk about the git branches.

"follow these instructions" is not clear — just what follows next?

Link to the specific part in contributing where we install the development version.

> To install the latest development versions of MDAnalysis (including unreleased features and bug fixes) you can compile it from `source`_. Use the following commands:

Reviewer 2: Our "from source" instructions are not very good because the **assuming you have already installed required dependencies** really shifts *all* the responsibility on the user to maintain a clean environment. 

We had discussions about shipping a conda env file but we have not achieved any kind of consensus there so the most accurate instructions are https://userguide.mdanalysis.org/stable/contributing_code.html#with-conda-forge-packages and then https://userguide.mdanalysis.org/stable/contributing_code.html#with-mamba-conda

====================
Installation Guide
====================

The latest version of **MDAnalysis** can be installed using :ref:`mamba-installation` (recommended), 
or :ref:`pip-installation`. If you need to install MDAnalysis from source, follow :ref:`source-installation` 
for stable releases. If you are a contributor or developer working on MDAnalysis, follow the 
:ref:`development-installation` for editable installation and code modifications.

Currently, the :ref:`mamba-installation` installs a version of MDAnalysis that does **not** include `OpenMP`_ 
acceleration due to limitations in precompiled conda packages. If you need `OpenMP`_-enabled features, 
consider installing via :ref:`pip-installation` and compiling from source with a compatible compiler and 
OpenMP support.

**MDAnalysisTests** is optional and it is a separate :ref:`test suite <mdanalysistests>` used 
for verifying MDAnalysis installations and running User Guide examples. It is not required for 
daily use, but some tutorials rely on it. The package is approximately 90 MB and is not updated frequently. 
If you plan to use tutorial examples or contribute to MDAnalysis, installing it is recommended.

> MDAnalysis requires Python 3.8 or later. Ensure you have an appropriate Python version installed before proceeding.

Reviewer 2: Currently 3.10.

Perhaps remove and link to the CHANGELOG or the PyPi page to check the latest supported version, just so that we don't forget updating in the future.

.. note::

>     MDAnalysis supports **Linux**, **macOS**, and **Windows** (Python 3.8+). 

Reviewer 2: remove Python 3.8

    - If you encounter errors on **Windows** related to **Microsoft Visual C++ 14.0**, install the required **Build Tools for Visual Studio** from: `Microsoft Visual Studio Downloads`_. 
    - If you encounter any other issues following these instructions, seek help on `GitHub Discussions (Installation)`_.    

> .. warning::

Reviewer 2: I think this should just be a *Note* — I'd reserve warnings for issues that may lead to incorrect results or data loss ... or something like that.

Also, there's a HOLE conda-forge package that we actually install(ed) with the mdahole kit so that sentence is outdated. Just remove HOLE example.

    :ref:`mamba-installation` and :ref:`pip-installation` installations **do not include** external programs such as `HOLE`_.

.. _mamba-installation:

mamba/conda 
===========

For most users, `mamba`_ is the **recommended** way to install MDAnalysis. It is a faster drop-in 
replacement for `conda`_ and efficiently handles dependencies. We also recommend creating a new 
environment for MDAnalysis to ensure a clean and isolated installation.

MDAnalysis supports two common ways to install with `mamba`_:

**1. Recommended: Use Mambaforge**

`Mambaforge`_ is a minimal `conda`_ distribution that includes `mamba`_ by default, uses the `conda-forge`_ channel 
(preferred for MDAnalysis) and avoids clutter from `Anaconda`_ base packages.

> To install MDAnalysis with `Mambaforge`_, first download the `mambaforge installer`_ and then run: 

Reviewer 2: I think here needs to be something like "follow the mambaforge installation instructions and then you should be able to run the following commands to install MDAnalysis:"

.. code-block:: bash

    mamba create -n mdanalysis mdanalysis
    mamba activate mdanalysis

To install the :ref:`test suite <mdanalysistests>` (optional, ~90 MB):

.. code-block:: bash

    mamba install -c conda-forge MDAnalysisTests

> For more installation options (including Windows installers), see the `official mamba installation guide`_.

Reviewer 2: This sentence seems out of context. If it's about mambaforge, put it there (perhaps in a footnote?)

To upgrade, use:

.. code-block:: bash

    mamba update mdanalysis

If you're using MDAnalysis in **JupyterLab**, install `ipywidgets`_ for progress bar support:

.. code-block:: bash

    mamba install -c conda-forge ipywidgets

**2. Alternative: Install mamba to an existing conda installation**

If you already use `conda`_, you can add `mamba`_ to your base environment:

.. code-block:: bash

    conda install -c conda-forge mamba

Then create and activate an environment with MDAnalysis:

.. code-block:: bash

    mamba create -n mdanalysis mdanalysis
    mamba activate mdanalysis

.. _pip-installation:

pip 
===

The following command will install or upgrade the latest stable version of MDAnalysis via `pip`_ with core dependencies. 
This means that some packages required by specific analysis modules will not be installed.

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install --upgrade MDAnalysis

> To install a fully-featured version of MDAnalysis (including optional analysis modules), use the ``analysis`` extra tag:

Reviewer 2: There are additional tags available (see https://github.com/MDAnalysis/mdanalysis/blob/35d9d2e3ab08e7e6741b57fe02a7215fe3b91a6c/package/pyproject.toml#L69 )
* analysis: additional dependencies for analysis modules
* extra_formats: more file formats
* parallel: include dask as a dependency for parallel analysis beyond a single machine
* doc: all dependencies to build the documentation

- **develop**: The `develop branch`_ is the default and active development branch. If you're contributing to MDAnalysis or want the latest features before they're released, base your work on this branch (see :ref:`development-installation`).

To install the **latest stable release** from source:

.. code-block:: bash

    git clone https://github.com/MDAnalysis/mdanalysis
    cd mdanalysis
    git checkout release-<latest-version>  
    pip install .

To run tests:

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install MDAnalysisTests

.. _development-installation:

Install for development 
==========================

This section is for **contributors and developers** who want to modify MDAnalysis 
or contribute to its development. You’ll install MDAnalysis in **editable mode**, which allows you to make code changes 
without reinstalling the package each time.

Before installing, follow the steps described in the :ref:`source-installation` to set up a clean environment 
with all dependencies. 

Once your environment is ready, install MDAnalysis in editable mode:

.. code-block:: bash

    git clone https://github.com/MDAnalysis/mdanalysis
    cd mdanalysis

>     git checkout develop  # Switch to the development branch

Reviewer 2: Modern git usage
```suggestion
    git switch develop    # work on the develop branch
```

.. -*- coding: utf-8 -*-

====================
Installation Guide
====================

The latest version of **MDAnalysis** can be installed using :ref:`mamba-installation` (recommended), 
or :ref:`pip-installation`. If you need to install MDAnalysis from source, follow :ref:`source-installation` 
for stable releases. If you are a contributor or developer working on MDAnalysis, follow the 
:ref:`development-installation` for editable installation and code modifications.

Currently, the :ref:`mamba-installation` installs a version of MDAnalysis that does **not** include `OpenMP`_ 
acceleration due to limitations in precompiled conda packages. If you need `OpenMP`_-enabled features, 
consider installing via :ref:`pip-installation` and compiling from source with a compatible compiler and 

> OpenMP support.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
OpenMP support (on macOS, be aware that Apple Clang does not support OpenMP).
```
This is the most mainstream compiler not supporting OpenMP, I think.

I have some old notes about this here: https://rmeli.github.io/TIL/python/mdanalysis/#openmp-on-macos

**MDAnalysisTests** is optional and is a separate :ref:`test suite <mdanalysistests>` used 

> for verifying MDAnalysis installations and running User Guide examples. It is not required for 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
for verifying MDAnalysis installations and running the User Guide examples. It is not required for 
```
?

    - If you encounter errors on **Windows** related to **Microsoft Visual C++ 14.0**, install the required **Build Tools for Visual Studio** from: `Microsoft Visual Studio Downloads`_. 
    - If you encounter any other issues following these instructions, seek help on `GitHub Discussions (Installation)`_.    

.. _mamba-installation:

mamba/conda 
===========

For most users, `mamba`_ is the **recommended** way to install MDAnalysis. It is a faster drop-in 
replacement for `conda`_ and efficiently handles dependencies. We also recommend creating a new 
environment for MDAnalysis to ensure a clean and isolated installation.

MDAnalysis supports two common ways to install with `mamba`_:

**1. Recommended: Use Mambaforge**

`Mambaforge`_ is a minimal `conda`_ distribution that includes `mamba`_ by default, uses the `conda-forge`_ channel 
(preferred for MDAnalysis) and avoids clutter from `Anaconda`_ base packages.

To install MDAnalysis with `Mambaforge`_, follow the `mambaforge installation instructions`_ and then
run the following commands to install MDAnalysis:

.. code-block:: bash

    mamba create -n mdanalysis mdanalysis
    mamba activate mdanalysis

> To install the :ref:`test suite <mdanalysistests>` (optional, ~90 MB):

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To install the :ref:`test suite <mdanalysistests>` (optional):
```
This is the kind of information that is bound to get out of date. Since 90MB is essentially nothing in today's standards, it might be worth simply dropping it IMO.

.. code-block:: bash

>     mamba install -c conda-forge MDAnalysisTests

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    mamba install -c conda-forge MDAnalysisTests
```
Is the explicit channel really needed here? I don't think so. It is also not used to install MDAnalysis above, so I'd remove it to keep consistency (if it works without).

Author: During testing, installing MDAnalysisTests without it threw an error, while MDAnalysis installed fine. I added -c conda-forge above for consistency and to avoid potential issues in other setups.

To upgrade, use:

.. code-block:: bash

    mamba update mdanalysis

If you're using MDAnalysis in **JupyterLab**, install `ipywidgets`_ for progress bar support:

.. code-block:: bash

>     mamba install -c conda-forge ipywidgets

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    mamba install ipywidgets
```
Same as above?

> **2. Alternative: Install mamba to an existing conda installation**

Reviewer 2: Following the removal of the "install mamba into existing conda env" from https://mamba.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation/mamba-installation.html#existing-conda-install-not-recommended , I would **remove this whole section** and just link to the instructions for either mamba or anaconda.

Reviewer 2: This could become an "Installation with conda from conda-forge".

Then all the `-c conda-forge` become relevant.

If you already use `conda`_, you can add `mamba`_ to your base environment:

.. code-block:: bash

>     conda install -c conda-forge mamba

Reviewer 3: Is this relevant? I don't find it in the current documentation, but in the old documentation this was [explicitly _not recommended_](https://web.archive.org/web/20240104003900/https://mamba.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation/mamba-installation.html#existing-conda-install-not-recommended). If we really want to provide this, I think we need to highlight that this only works (does it?) in the base environment. It is mentioned, but I don't think it is highlighted enough, and we should probably use a warning box like in the `mamba` documentation.

Reviewer 2: It works in base and the mamba instructions had just said to _only install in base_ #405 . In our old docs we somewhere incorrectly suggested to install into the mdanalysis venv and this PR fixes that IIRC.

(Admittedly, I install mamba into any existing base that were generated years ago with anaconda and then I remove the default channel... too much hassle to find out how to do a fresh mambaforge installation.)

Reviewer 2: Let's just remove it all. As long as there are links to installation instructions for mamba or conda/anaconda, user will find out how to do it.

Then create and activate an environment with MDAnalysis:

.. code-block:: bash

    mamba create -n mdanalysis mdanalysis
    mamba activate mdanalysis

.. _pip-installation:

pip 
===

The following command will install or upgrade the latest stable version of MDAnalysis via `pip`_ with core dependencies. 
This means that some packages required by specific analysis modules will not be installed.

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install --upgrade MDAnalysis

> MDAnalysis offers several optional dependency groups (“extra tags”) that you can install with pip to enable additional features:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
MDAnalysis offers several optional dependency groups (“extra tags”) that you can install with ``pip`` to enable additional features:
```
For consistency.

- ``analysis``: optional dependencies for various analysis modules.
- ``extra_formats``: support for additional file formats.

> - ``parallel``: install dask to enable parallel analysis across multiple cores or machines.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- ``parallel``: install ``dask`` to enable parallel analysis across multiple cores or machines.
```
Maybe it is worth adding a link to [dask](https://www.dask.org)?

- ``doc``: install documentation build dependencies (e.g. Sphinx, themes).

> To see the full list of available extras, check the `pyproject.toml file`_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To see the full list of currently available extras, check the ``[project.optional-dependencies]`` dependencies section in the `pyproject.toml file`_.
```

> To install with optional features, use pip with one or more extras:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To install with optional features, use ``pip`` with one or more extras:
```

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install --upgrade MDAnalysis[analysis,extra_formats,parallel]

> To install or upgrade the :ref:`test suite <mdanalysistests>` (optional, ~90 MB):

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To install or upgrade the :ref:`test suite <mdanalysistests>` (optional):
```
See above.

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install --upgrade MDAnalysisTests

If you're using MDAnalysis in **JupyterLab**, install `ipywidgets`_ for progress bar support:

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install ipywidgets

.. _source-installation:

Install from source

> ===================

Reviewer 3: Is this as a separate section really necessary? Can't we just have the developer installation (and eventually mention not to use the editable `-e` option)? I would unify the two sections, but this might just be personal preference so feel free to ignore if no-one else feels the same.

Reviewer 2: I would keep them separate. The "Install from source" has information about the package branches. 

The "Develop installation" only uses the develop branch. 

Btw, what's so bad about `pip -e` ?

Reviewer 3: > and eventually mention not to use the editable -e option

Sorry, I was unclear. There is nothing wrong with -e. What I was thinking was that we could have a single set of instructions and mention the different branches, and that if one is not interested in developing (i.e. editing the source), the -e option is not necessary.

But I'm OK to keep the sections separate, I just thought there was a lot of overlap.

If you're a developer, see :ref:`development-installation`.

To install from source, you must first ensure that your environment already contains all necessary dependencies.
We recommend you check the :ref:`create-virtual-environment` to set up a clean development environment
with all required dependencies. We recommend using `mamba`_ or `conda`_ to manage this setup.

Follow the steps in:

- `Set up with conda-forge`_
- `Set up with mamba`_

MDAnalysis uses different Git branches for different purposes:

- **package-X.Y.Z**: These branches contain specific stable releases (e.g., ``package-2.9.0``) and are intended for users who need reproducibility, debugging, or version locking. You can browse them on the GitHub `Branches page`_ or view official releases on the `Releases page`_.
- **develop**: The `develop`_ branch is the default and active development branch. If you're contributing to MDAnalysis or want the latest features before they're released, base your work on this branch (see :ref:`development-installation`).

To install the **latest stable release** from source:

.. code-block:: bash

    git clone https://github.com/MDAnalysis/mdanalysis
    cd mdanalysis

>     git switch release-<latest-version>

Reviewer 2: Does not work for me on a fresh clone – neither using "package-..." nor "release-..."
```
git switch release-2.9.0
fatal: a branch is expected, got tag 'release-2.9.0'
hint: If you want to detach HEAD at the commit, try again with the --detach option.
```
or branch name
```
$ git switch package-2.9.0
fatal: a branch is expected, got tag 'package-2.9.0'
hint: If you want to detach HEAD at the commit, try again with the --detach option.
```

Reviewer 2: Using `git checkout`
```
 git checkout package-2.9.0
Note: switching to 'package-2.9.0'.

You are in 'detached HEAD' state. You can look around, make experimental
changes and commit them, and you can discard any commits you make in this
state without impacting any branches by switching back to a branch.

If you want to create a new branch to retain commits you create, you may
do so (now or later) by using -c with the switch command. Example:

  git switch -c <new-branch-name>

Or undo this operation with:

  git switch -

Turn off this advice by setting config variable advice.detachedHead to false
```

>     git checkout release-<latest-version>

Reviewer 2: Is `git switch` preferred over `git checkout` nowadays?

According to https://stackoverflow.com/a/70454786 simple checkout and switch are equivalent (but switch is clearer):
```suggestion
    git switch release-<latest-version>
```

Use of these flags can give a significant performance boost where the compiler can effectively autovectorise.

Be sure to use the recommended flags for your target architecture. For example, ARM platforms recommend using ``-mcpu`` instead of ``-march``, while 
PowerPC platforms prefer both ``-mcpu`` and ``-mtune``.

Full discussion of these flags is available elsewhere (such as here in this `wiki`_ or in this `ARM`_ blog post) and a list of supported options should be provided by your compiler. The list for GCC_ is provided here.

.. warning::
    These compiler options are **advanced** and may reduce binary compatibility. In particular, using `-march` may restrict MDAnalysis to the exact CPU architecture it was compiled on.
    We **strongly recommend** that you run the test suite on your intended platform before proceeding with analysis.

In cases where you might encounter multiple CPU architectures (e.g. on a supercomputer where the login node and compute node have different architectures), you should avoid changing these options unless you are experienced with compiling software in these situations.

Additional datasets
===================

> MDAnalysisData_ is an additional package with datasets that can be used in example tutorials. You can install it with `conda`_ or `pip`_:

Reviewer 2: mamba/conda

This allows you to add any additional compiler options required for your architecture.

For example, ``extra_cflags`` can be used to tune your MDAnalysis installation for your current architecture using the `-march`, `-mtune`, `-mcpu` and related compiler flags.

> The optimal compiler flags depend on your CPU architecture. An example for an x86_64 machine would be to change the line in `setup.cfg` as follows:

Reviewer 3: I don't think this suggestion should be limited to `x86_64`. ` -march=native -mtune=native` should work for different architectures. Maybe it was intended to use something like `-march=x86-64-v4`? Is there a better example we can use?

Use of these flags can give a significant performance boost where the compiler can effectively autovectorise.

> Be sure to use the recommended flags for your target architecture. For example, ARM platforms recommend using ``-mcpu`` instead of ``-march``, while 

Reviewer 3: Is this still the case? GCC documentation now says the following about `-march=name`:

> This option can be used in conjunction with or instead of the -mcpu= option.

And under `-mcpu`:

> Where this option is used in conjunction with `-march` or `-mtune`, those options take precedence over the appropriate part of this option.

I'd double check if this information is still relevant. I'd point directly to the compiler documentation here, because what we write here might get out of date at some point.

.. _numpy: https://numpy.org/
.. _Github discussions: https://github.com/MDAnalysis/mdanalysis/discussions 
.. _raise an issue: https://github.com/MDAnalysis/mdanalysis/issues
.. _pytest-xdist: https://github.com/pytest-dev/pytest-xdist 
.. _OpenMP: https://www.openmp.org/
.. _mambaforge installation instructions: https://mamba.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation/mamba-installation.html
.. _Mambaforge: https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge#mambaforge
.. _conda-forge: https://conda-forge.org/
.. _Anaconda: https://www.anaconda.com/products/distribution
.. _ipywidgets: https://ipywidgets.readthedocs.io/en/stable/
.. _Releases page: https://github.com/MDAnalysis/mdanalysis/releases
.. _Set up with conda-forge: https://userguide.mdanalysis.org/stable/contributing_code.html#with-conda-forge-packages
.. _Set up with mamba: https://userguide.mdanalysis.org/stable/contributing_code.html#with-mamba-conda
.. _develop: https://github.com/MDAnalysis/mdanalysis/tree/develop
.. _Branches page: https://github.com/MDAnalysis/mdanalysis/branches/all
.. _CHANGELOG: https://github.com/MDAnalysis/mdanalysis/blob/develop/package/CHANGELOG
.. _PyPI: https://pypi.org/project/MDAnalysis/

> .. _pyproject.toml file: https://github.com/MDAnalysis/mdanalysis/blob/35d9d2e3ab08e7e6741b57fe02a7215fe3b91a6c/package/pyproject.toml#L69

Reviewer 2: Replace link to specific commit with generic link:
```suggestion
.. _pyproject.toml: https://github.com/MDAnalysis/mdanalysis/blob/develop/package/pyproject.toml
```

.. _numpy: https://numpy.org/
.. _Github discussions: https://github.com/MDAnalysis/mdanalysis/discussions
.. _raise an issue: https://github.com/MDAnalysis/mdanalysis/issues
.. _pytest-xdist: https://github.com/pytest-dev/pytest-xdist
.. _OpenMP: https://www.openmp.org/
.. _mambaforge installation instructions: https://mamba.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation/mamba-installation.html
.. _Mambaforge: https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge#mambaforge
.. _conda-forge: https://conda-forge.org/
.. _Anaconda: https://www.anaconda.com/products/distribution
.. _ipywidgets: https://ipywidgets.readthedocs.io/en/stable/
.. _Releases page: https://github.com/MDAnalysis/mdanalysis/releases
.. _Set up with conda-forge: https://userguide.mdanalysis.org/stable/contributing_code.html#with-conda-forge-packages
.. _Set up with mamba: https://userguide.mdanalysis.org/stable/contributing_code.html#with-mamba-conda
.. _develop: https://github.com/MDAnalysis/mdanalysis/tree/develop
.. _Branches page: https://github.com/MDAnalysis/mdanalysis/branches/all
.. _CHANGELOG: https://github.com/MDAnalysis/mdanalysis/blob/develop/package/CHANGELOG
.. _PyPI: https://pypi.org/project/MDAnalysis/

> .. _pyproject.toml file: https://github.com/MDAnalysis/mdanalysis/blob/35d9d2e3ab08e7e6741b57fe02a7215fe3b91a6c/package/pyproject.toml#L69

Reviewer 2: Link to the generic latest file, not a specific commit. Otherwise the docs are stuck on this specific version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. _pyproject.toml file: https://github.com/MDAnalysis/mdanalysis/blob/develop/package/pyproject.toml#L69
```
